Cloud9 cfn template (#198)
aws-samples/cfn101-workshop: content/prerequisites/cloud9/index.md

---
title: "Use Cloud9 IDE"
weight: 200
---

## What is Cloud9

[AWS Cloud9](https://aws.amazon.com/cloud9/) is a cloud-based IDE that lets you write, run, and debug your code with just a browser. It includes a code editor, debugger, and terminal. Cloud9 comes prepackaged with essential tools for running this workshop. Since your Cloud9 IDE is cloud-based, you can do labs from your office, home, or anywhere using an internet-connected machine.

> We recommend using it to run this workshop because it comes with the necessary set of tools pre-installed. If you prefer to work locally, the next section includes details on how to setup your local development environment.

Reviewer: I think the should reword little bit. Something like, "For the best experience with the workshop and minimal setup effort, we recommend..."

## Create a Cloud9 instance from AWS Console

1. Create a Cloud9 instance from the **AWS Console** by following the steps from the [Creating an EC2 Environment](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/create-environment-main.html) guide.
:::alert{type="info"}
We recommend using **us-east-1 (N. Virginia)** as the _AWS Region_ for the workshop.
:::
1. Once created, your instance should be listed on the AWS Cloud9 [Environments](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/home) page. Click **Open** if not already.

> 1. You will see a terminal area at the bottom where you will run the commands as you progress through the workshop. In the main work area you will open and edit code and template files. AWS Cloud9 comes with the required command line tools (aws cli, python) pre-installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You will see a terminal area at the bottom where you will run the commands as you progress through the workshop. In the main work area you will open and edit code and template files.
```

1. There is one tool to update, run below command on terminal to update the **pip** version:
    :::code{language=shell showLineNumbers=false showCopyAction=true}
    sudo pip install --upgrade pip

>     :::

Reviewer: why we upgrading pip? also running `sudo` is not a good practices with a pip...it should be run as a user rather root...

Reviewer: maybe as a final step  customers can test that aws cli is working by running `aws s3 ls`...i think that's all needed at this stage?

Reviewer: I have notice that you have updated Get lab resources section...lets move it here and we can move rest of that file to local development

Author: > why we upgrading pip? also running `sudo` is not a good practices with a pip...it should be run as a user rather root...

without pip upgrade pip install cfn-lint do not work as default pip is older version and fails while installing cfn-lint

Author: > I have notice that you have updated Get lab resources section...lets move it here and we can move rest of that file to local development

done, please have a look and share your suggestions

---
title: "Use Cloud9 IDE"
weight: 200
---

## What is Cloud9

> AWS Cloud9 is a cloud-based IDE that also offers a command-line terminal. It already comes with AWS CLI, Node.js, AWS CDK Toolkit, and Git installed by default. That's why we strongly recommend you to consider AWS Cloud9 to run this workshop. You can configure a cloud watch instance from aws console as well using aws cloud formation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS Cloud9 is a cloud-based IDE that lets you write, run, and debug your code with just a browser. It includes a code editor, debugger, and terminal. Cloud9 comes prepackaged with essential tools for running this workshop. Since your Cloud9 IDE is cloud-based, you can do labs from your office, home, or anywhere using an internet-connected machine. 
```

1. In **Prepare template**, select **Template is ready**.
1. In **Template source**, select **Upload a template file**.
1. Choose the `cloud9_instance_stack.yaml` template downloaed in step 1.
1. Click on Next.
1. Give a unique name to S3 bucket parameter like 'cfn-workshop-01-{AccountId}
1. Leave all others parameters default.
1. Scroll Down to page and click on acknowledgement checkbox.
1. Click On Create Stack Button and wait for Cloud9 Stack creation. It usually takes 5-7 minutes.
1. When the the cloud formation stack creation is successfully completed, Search Cloud9 in AWS Console Services and click on CLoud9 from Search Results.
1. On Cloud9 Enviornments Home Page, Click on Open for the enviornment which you have just created.
1. You will see a terminal area in the bottom, where you will run the requirement commands as you move forward. In the main work area you will open and edit code. AWS Cloud9 already comes with the required command line tools (aws cli, python)
1. Run below command on terminal to update pip version:
    :::code{language=shell showLineNumbers=false showCopyAction=true}
    sudo pip install --upgrade pip

>     :::

Reviewer: I think we are not ready to support Cloud9 via cfn. My recommendation would be to remove this section and create separate PR so we are not blocked bu this.

Author: > I think we are not ready to support Cloud9 via cfn. My recommendation would be to remove this section and create separate PR so we are not blocked bu this.

removed and there will be a new pr for this
